{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Dear %s,\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Congratulations on your new NSF Arctic Sciences award %s %s.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The NSF-funded Arctic Data Center support team is passionate about Arctic science. We are here to support researchers like yourself in storing and sharing valuable data.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We are contacting you today because projects funded by the NSF Arctic Sciences Section have specific requirements for data and metadata storage. The Arctic Data Center is a long-lived, publicly accessible archive that was created to help researchers meet the NSF data and metadata storage requirements.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 NSF requires all metadata created during your project be submitted to a national data center or another long-lived, publicly accessible archive within two years of collection or before the end of your award, whichever comes first. Additionally, data and derived data products are often required to be submitted on that same timeframe. More detailed information about what will be expected can be found at: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arcticdata.io/submit/#who-must-submit"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://arcticdata.io/submit/#who-must-submit
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 With these requirements in mind, we strongly recommend that you plan to keep detailed and well-documented data and metadata records throughout your project. Some guidelines are provided here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arcticdata.io/submit/#organizing-your-data"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://arcticdata.io/submit/#organizing-your-data
}}}
. If you are interested, we also have annual training opportunities posted here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arcticdata.io/training/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://arcticdata.io/training/
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If your research will involve large data submissions (a total size of > 100 GB or more than 500 files), please get in touch with us so we can create a plan together for those datasets.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 We also wanted to highlight the data portals feature at the Arctic Data Center. If your project involves multiple related datasets, such as those that are part of a larger research project or organization, a data portal can allow datasets to be discovered together. More information on how to create a data portal and examples can be found here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://arcticdata.io/data-portals/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://arcticdata.io/data-portals/
}}}
.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 If you have any questions about the Arctic Data Center or NSF requirements, please reply to this email and we will respond as soon as possible.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Good luck on your research!\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The Arctic Data Center Support Team\par}
}
